Simplify and clarify the memory terminology article (#3033)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/memory-problems/memory-101.md

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## The memory graph

Think of the memory used by a webpage as a graph: a structure that contains nodes that are connected together by edges. The nodes in the memory graph represent the objects used by the page, such as primitive types like JavaScript numbers or strings, or objects like associative arrays.

![Visual representation of memory](./memory-101-images/thinkgraph.png)

Nodes and edges in the memory graph are given the following labels:

*  _Nodes_ (or _objects_) are labelled using the name of the _constructor_ function that was used to build them.

*  _Edges_ are labelled using the names of _properties_.

A node in the graph can hold memory in two ways:

*  Directly; the memory is held by the object itself.

*  Implicitly, by holding references to other objects. An object holding references to other objects prevents those objects from being automatically disposed by a garbage collector (GC).

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## JavaScript heap and renderer memory

> The JavaScript heap is a memory region in the browser process where all the JavaScript objects live. The JavaScript heap is what the **Memory** tool displays when you take a heap snapshot. The JavaScript heap is also called the _V8 heap_ (after the V8 JavaScript engine that powers Microsoft Edge).

Reviewer: > "The JavaScript heap is what the **Memory** tool displays when you take a heap snapshot.

This used to be true, but over the last few years, upstream folks have put a lot of effort into making the V8 and Blink garbage collectors work together better. Now the heap snapshot shows both V8 memory (which contains JS and WebAssembly), and Blink objects allocated in the Blink memory region. I'm not sure how to say that in a way that is both true and easy to read.

The JavaScript heap is part of the renderer memory. The renderer memory is the memory used by the browser process where the webpage is rendered. The renderer memory is comprised of the following:

* Native memory (such as the one used by the C++ objects that represent the DOM nodes).
* JavaScript heap memory of the page.
* JavaScript heap memory of all dedicated workers started by the page.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Garbage-collection roots

> _Garbage-collection roots_, or GC roots, are created by the browser when a reference from the browser's native code to a JavaScript object outside of the V8 virtual machine is made. These references are called _handles_. You can find these handles in the **Memory** tool under **GC roots** > **Handle scope** and **GC roots** > **Global handles**.<!-- Can't find this in the Memory tool. Where is it? -->

Author: @sethbrenith do you know if GC roots are still visible in the Memory tool, and if so, where?

Reviewer: They're mostly hidden most of the time, and that's on purpose. By default, heap snapshots lie a little bit and pretend that any attached global objects (`Window`) are the roots. It's possible to see the term "GC roots" in the Containment view, but relatively little memory is attributed to that category.

However, the _idea_ of roots is somewhat important for understanding how a garbage collector works, which is the topic of a few paragraphs down from here.

Author: Thanks, removing the note about **Global handles** in DevTools, but keeping this intro about GC roots.

There are many internal GC roots, most of which aren't interesting for web developers. From the webpage's standpoint, the following types of GC roots exist:

> *  Window global object (in each iframe). In a heap snapshot displayed in the **Memory** tool, the `distance` field for a window global object indicates the number of property references that on the shortest retaining path from the window.<!-- If this is useful, this needs clarification: what window? The top-level one? Does retaining path mean the path through the graph from the iframe window to the top-level window? -->

Author: @sethbrenith this sentence is hard to parse. I'm wondering if it's still useful, and if it is, would you have a suggestion for making it clearer?

Reviewer: Agreed: this sentence seems low-value and sort of irrelevant to the primary topic of this section, which is describing the roots.

Author: Removed the sentence about the distance field.

> *  Window global object (in each iframe). In a heap snapshot displayed in the **Memory** tool, the `distance` field for a window global object indicates the number of property references that on the shortest retaining path from the window.<!-- If this is useful, this needs clarification: what window? The top-level one? Does retaining path mean the path through the graph from the iframe window to the top-level window? -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  Window global object (in each iframe). In a heap snapshot displayed in the **Memory** tool, the `distance` field for a window global object indicates the number of property references that are on the shortest retaining path from the window.<!-- If this is useful, this needs clarification: what window? The top-level one? Does retaining path mean the path through the graph from the iframe window to the top-level window? -->
```
* that are

> *  The document DOM tree, consisting of all native DOM nodes that are reachable by traversing the document. Not all of the nodes have JavaScript wrappers, but if a node has a wrapper, the node is alive while the document is alive.

Reviewer: I don't think that this is true anymore. I think that the Memory tool currently treats only `Window` instances as roots (both the top-level one and any same-domain iframes). When I select any DOM nodes in the Memory tool, I see a retaining path describing how the DOM node is kept alive by a Window.

> *  Sometimes objects are retained by the debugging context set by the **Sources** or the **Console** tool, for example when evaluating a JavaScript expression in the **Console** tool. To remove these objects from the **Memory** tool, clear the **Console** tool and deactivate breakpoints in the **Sources** tool before recording a heap snapshot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  Sometimes objects are retained by the debugging context that's set by the **Sources** or the **Console** tool, for example when evaluating a JavaScript expression in the **Console** tool. To remove these objects from the **Memory** tool, clear the **Console** tool and deactivate breakpoints in the **Sources** tool before recording a heap snapshot.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/t/that-vs-which - "Include _that_ even if the sentence is clear without it. It helps to clarify the sentence structure."

The memory graph starts with a GC root, which may be the `window` object of the browser or the `Global` object of a Node.js module. You don't control how the root object is garbage-collected.

Nodes that aren't reachable from the root can get garbage-collected.

![You can't control how the root object is garbage-collected](./memory-101-images/dontcontrol.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Object sizes and distances

When working with the **Memory** tool, you will likely find yourself looking at the following columns of information:

* **Shallow Size**
* **Retained Size**
* **Distance**

> The numbers that are shown in the **Shallow size** and **Retained size** columns are the number of bytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The numbers in the **Shallow size** and **Retained size** columns are the number of bytes.
```

> ![Shallow and Retained Size](./memory-101-images/shallow-retained.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Shallow and Retained size](./memory-101-images/shallow-retained.png)
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Shallow size

The _shallow size_ is the size of the memory that is held by the object directly.

> The shallow size of an object is usually small because JavaScript objects often just store their own descriptions only in memory. Arrays and strings are exceptions to this and can have a significant shallow size. Most JavaScript objects store their values elsewhere in the renderer memory, and only expose a small wrapper object on the JavaScript heap.

Reviewer: > Most JavaScript objects store their values elsewhere in the renderer memory, and only expose a small wrapper object on the JavaScript heap.

By the way, I'm working on changing this so that shallow sizes will be more useful. The experimental setting will land upstream soon (probably tomorrow). Work is tracked [here](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1517057).

Author: Cool, that sounds very useful. Once the new setting is in Canary, we should document it too.

> The shallow size of an object is usually small because JavaScript objects often just store their own descriptions only in memory. Arrays and strings are exceptions to this and can have a significant shallow size. Most JavaScript objects store their values elsewhere in the renderer memory, and only expose a small wrapper object on the JavaScript heap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The shallow size of an object is usually small because JavaScript objects often store their own descriptions only in memory, rather than in __. Arrays and strings are exceptions to this and can have a significant shallow size. Most JavaScript objects store their values elsewhere in the renderer memory, and only expose a small wrapper object on the JavaScript heap.
```
need to clarify the negative - stored in memory, as opposed to what - renderer memory?

> Nevertheless, even a small object can hold a large amount of memory indirectly, by preventing other objects from being disposed of by the automatic garbage collection process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nevertheless, even a small object can hold a large amount of memory indirectly, by preventing other objects from being disposed of by the garbage collection process.
```
* automatic - GC is inherently automatic

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Retained size

> The _retained size_ is the size of memory that is implicitly held by an object and that is freed once the object is deleted along with all the dependent objects that were made unreachable from GC roots.

Reviewer: Two comments here:

1. I would say "would be freed" rather than "is freed", since we haven't yet freed the object (it's in the snapshot, after all)
2. Christy changed what this column means. I'm not really sure how to describe the meaning of the new value; you might want to consult with her. https://dev.azure.com/microsoft/Edge/_git/chromium.devtools-frontend/pullrequest/9283784

Author: @christyycchen any proposal for a revised wording here, that would match the new retained size column counting logic?

Reviewer 3: Something around 
"is the size of memory that is implicitly held by an object and that could be freed once the object and other existing retainer is deleted along with all the dependent objects that were made unreachable from GC roots." ? 🤔
Maybe add some notes explaining that when a child node is retained by multiple nodes, the size of that child node is contributed to the parent node that has the shorted path to the GC root. Some graphs could help explaining this.

> Said another way, the retained size of an object is the amount of memory that would be regained if the object and all of its dependent objects were removed from the memory graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That is, the retained size of an object is the amount of memory that would be regained if the object and all of its dependent objects were removed from the memory graph.
```
more standard phrase imo

The retained size can't be smaller than the shallow size.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Distance

The _distance_ of an object in the JavaScript heap is the number of nodes on the shortest path between the object and the GC root. The shorter the distance, the more likely it is that this object plays an important role in the memory usage of the webpage.

> If almost all the objects of the same type are at the same distance, and a few are at a bigger distance, that's something worth investigating.<!-- WHY? -->

Author: @sethbrenith My understanding is that the `distance` column in the Memory tool isn't super actionable for web developers. This sentence has been in this article since the beginning, and I don't really know what it means. Why would looking at this pattern help web devs?

Author: Thanks. Removing the sentence, but adding a sentence about the Retainers section default sorting order.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Retainers

An object's retainers are the others objects that hold references to it. The **Retainers** section of the **Memory** tool shows the objects that hold references to the selected object. Any object with no retainers can be discarded by the browser’s garbage collector, which reduces memory usage.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## V8 specifics

> When profiling memory, it is helpful to understand why heap snapshots look a certain way. This section describes some memory-related topics specifically corresponding to the _V8 JavaScript virtual machine_ (abbreviated here as _V8 VM_, or just _VM_).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When profiling memory, it's helpful to understand why heap snapshots look a certain way. This section describes some memory-related topics specifically corresponding to the _V8 JavaScript virtual machine_ (abbreviated here as _V8 VM_, or just _VM_).
```
brand voice is contractions, except where emphasis is needed

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### JavaScript object representation

In JavaScript, there are three primitive types:

*  Numbers (such as `3.14159...`).
*  Booleans (`true` or `false`).
*  Strings (such as `"Werner Heisenberg"`).

Primitives cannot reference other values, and are always leaf nodes in the memory graph (also called _terminating nodes_).

**Numbers** can be stored as either:

*  Immediate 31-bit integer values that are called **small integers** (_SMIs_).

*  Heap objects, referred to as **heap numbers**. Heap numbers are used for storing values that don't fit into the SMI form, such as **doubles**, or when a value needs to be **boxed**, such as setting properties on it.

**Strings** can be stored in either:

*  The **VM heap**.

> *  Externally in the **renderer's memory**. A _wrapper object_ is created and used for accessing external storage where, for example, script sources and other content that is received from the Web is stored, rather than copied onto the VM heap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  Externally in the **renderer's memory**. A _wrapper object_ is created and used for accessing external storage where, for example, script sources and other content that's received from the Web is stored, rather than copied onto the VM heap.
```

Memory for new JavaScript objects is allocated from a dedicated JavaScript heap (or _VM heap_). These objects are managed by V8 VM's garbage collector, and therefore, these objects stay alive as long as there is at least one strong reference<!-- undefined term --> to them.

**Native objects** - Anything not in the JavaScript heap is called a _native object_. A native object, in contrast to a heap object, isn't managed by the V8 garbage collector throughout its lifetime, and can only be accessed from JavaScript by using its JavaScript wrapper object.

> A **cons string** (concatenation string) is an object that consists of pairs of strings that are stored and then joined, and is a result of concatenation. The joining of the **cons string** contents occurs only as needed. For example, when a substring of a joined string needs to be constructed.

Reviewer: Nit: in the DevTools, these are called "concatenat*ed* string", not "concatenat*ion* string".

> A **cons string** (concatenation string) is an object that consists of pairs of strings that are stored and then joined, and is a result of concatenation. The joining of the **cons string** contents occurs only as needed. For example, when a substring of a joined string needs to be constructed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A _cons string_ (concatenated string) is an object that consists of pairs of strings that are stored and then joined, and is a result of concatenation. The joining of the **cons string** contents occurs only as needed, such as when a substring of a joined string needs to be constructed.
```

> For example, if you concatenate `a` and `b`, you get a string `(a, b)` which represents the result of concatenation, and is a cons string. If you later concatenated `d` with that result, you get another cons string: `((a, b, d)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if you concatenate `a` and `b`, you get a string `(a, b)` which represents the result of concatenation, and is a cons string. If you later concatenated `c` with that result, you get another cons string: `((a, b, c)`.
```
* c - doesn't raise questions, like "d".  Is there some reason "d" was used instead of "c"?

   limitations under the License. -->
# Memory terminology

> This article describes common terms used in the **Memory** tool, a tool for investigating memory issues, but is applicable to memory analysis in general and to various memory profiling tools for different languages. If you've worked with memory profilers for languages such as Java or .NET, this article may be a refresher.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following terms are used in the **Memory** tool, which is for investigating memory issues.  These memory terms are applicable to memory analysis in general, as well as memory profiling tools for languages such as Java or .NET.
```
@captainbrosset - did this interesting rewrite of important Paragraph 1 fyi.
* Talk in terms of tech, not docs.  Keep focus on tech, not docs.
* Break up long sentence, as Acrolinx probably says.
* Uncomfortable talking about the reader's level of knowledge; not necessary.  Keep focus on tech, not speculating about user's level of knowledge.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Retainers

An object's retainers are the others objects that hold references to it. The **Retainers** section of the **Memory** tool shows the objects that hold references to the object selected in the **Summary** view.

The **Retainers** section of the **Memory** tool is sorted by distance by default, which means that the simplest retaining paths for an object are shown first.

Any object with no retainers can be discarded by the browser’s garbage collector, which reduces memory usage.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## V8 specifics

When profiling memory, it's helpful to understand why heap snapshots look a certain way. This section describes how some objects are stored in memory by the _V8 JavaScript virtual machine_ (abbreviated here as _V8 VM_, or just _VM_), which can help you when analyzing heap snapshots in the **Memory** tool.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### JavaScript primitives

In JavaScript, there are three primitive types:

> *  Numbers (such as `3.14159...`).

Reviewer 2: @captainbrosset minor note: the string or value "3.14159..." with dots isn't a number type; it's not an actual example of a number value AFAIK.  removed dots.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### JavaScript objects

Memory for new JavaScript objects is allocated from a dedicated JavaScript heap (or _VM heap_). These objects are managed by V8 VM's garbage collector, and therefore, these objects stay alive as long as there is at least one reference to them.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Other objects

* **Native objects**: anything not in the JavaScript heap is called a _native object_. A native object, in contrast to a heap object, isn't managed by the V8 garbage collector throughout its lifetime, and can only be accessed from JavaScript by using its JavaScript wrapper object.

* **Concatenated strings**: strings that are stored and then joined together, as a result of a string concatenation in JavaScript, are stored as _concatenated strings_ in V8. The joining of the string contents occurs only as needed, such as when a substring of a joined string needs to be constructed.

>   For example, if you concatenate `a` and `b`, you get a concatenated string `(a, b)` which represents the result of concatenation. If you later concatenate `c` with that result, you get another concatenated string: `((a, b, c)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For example, if you concatenate `a` and `b`, you get a concatenated string `(a, b)` which represents the result of concatenation. If you later concatenate `c` with that result, you get another concatenated string: `(a, b, c)`.
```
@captainbrosset tech review this suggestion.  you might want eg (a b (c))

Author: It should be `((a, b), c)`. This was a typo. Fiuxing.

> * **Arrays**: an _array_ is an object that has numeric keys. Arrays are used extensively in the V8 VM for storing large amounts of data. Sets of key-value pairs that are used like dictionaries are implemented as **arrays**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Arrays**: an _array_ is an object that has numeric keys. Arrays are used extensively in the V8 VM for storing large amounts of data. Sets of key-value pairs that are used like dictionaries are implemented as arrays.
```
is bolding appropriate?  'arrays' seems like a plain regular word, after the introduction highlights it.  Same w/ next sentence.  If "arrays" is a lang keyword/type, it should be backticks, not bold.

Reviewer 2: removed bold 2x, seems just as clear.

There are many internal GC roots, most of which aren't interesting for web developers. From the webpage's standpoint, the following types of GC roots exist:

*  Window global objects (one in each iframe).

*  Sometimes objects are retained by the debugging context that's set by the **Sources** or the **Console** tool, such as when evaluating a JavaScript expression in the **Console** tool. To remove these objects from the **Memory** tool, before recording a heap snapshot, clear the **Console** tool and deactivate breakpoints in the **Sources** tool.

The memory graph starts with a GC root, which may be the `window` object of the browser or the `Global` object of a Node.js module. You don't control how the root object is garbage-collected:

![You can't control how the root object is garbage-collected](./memory-101-images/dontcontrol.png)

Nodes that aren't reachable from the root can get garbage-collected.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Object sizes and distances

When working with the **Memory** tool, you will likely find yourself looking at the following columns of information:

> * **Shallow Size**
> * **Retained Size**
> * **Distance**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Distance**
* **Shallow Size**
* **Retained Size**
```
same order as in png 
rendered:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/memory-problems/memory-101?branch=pr-en-us-3033#object-sizes-and-distances

> The numbers in the **Shallow size** and **Retained size** columns are the number of bytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The numbers in the **Shallow size** and **Retained size** columns are the number of bytes:
```
check this suggestion by looking at flow in rendered article section: 
pending

> ![The Distance, Shallow Size, and Retained Size columns in the Memory tool](./memory-101-images/shallow-retained.png)

Reviewer 2: Add red box on Distance column, like the other two discussed.

Author: There's already a red box around the Distance column header.

> ![Shallow and Retained size](./memory-101-images/shallow-retained.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![The Shallow Size and Retained Size columns in the Memory tool](./memory-101-images/shallow-retained.png)
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Shallow size

The _shallow size_ is the size of the memory that is held by the object directly.

> The shallow size of an object is usually small because JavaScript objects often only store the descriptions of the object in memory, and not their values. Arrays and strings are exceptions to this and can have a significant shallow size. Most JavaScript objects store their values elsewhere in the renderer memory, and only expose a small wrapper object on the JavaScript heap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The shallow size of an object is usually small, because JavaScript objects often only store the descriptions of the object in memory, and not their values. Arrays and strings are exceptions to this, and can have a significant shallow size. Most JavaScript objects store their values elsewhere in the renderer memory, and only expose a small wrapper object on the JavaScript heap.
```
commas to help parse.  comma = when reading aloud, a pause.

> Nevertheless, even a small object can hold a large amount of memory indirectly, by preventing other objects from being disposed of by the garbage collection process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nevertheless, even a small object can hold a large amount of memory _indirectly_, by preventing other objects from being disposed of by the garbage collection process.
```
the intended emphasis

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Retained size

The _retained size_ is the size of the memory that's implicitly held by an object and that could be freed once the object and other existing retainers are deleted along with all the dependent objects that were made unreachable from GC roots.

That is, the retained size of an object is the amount of memory that would be regained if the object and all of its dependent objects were removed from the memory graph.

The retained size can't be smaller than the shallow size.

When an object is retained by multiple nodes, the object's size appears in the retained size of the retainer node that has the shortest path to the GC root.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Distance

Reviewer 2: re-order the 3 sections to match png at https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/memory-problems/memory-101?branch=pr-en-us-3033#object-sizes-and-distances 

1. Distance
2. Shallow size
3. Retained size

The _distance_ of an object in the JavaScript heap is the number of nodes on the shortest path between the object and the GC root. The shorter the distance, the more likely it is that this object plays an important role in the memory usage of the webpage.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Retainers

> An object's retainers are the others objects that hold references to it. The **Retainers** section of the **Memory** tool shows the objects that hold references to the object selected in the **Summary** view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An object's _retainers_ are the others objects that hold references to it. The **Retainers** section of the **Memory** tool shows the objects that hold references to the object selected in the **Summary** view.
```
defining the term 'retainers', so offset via formatting

The **Retainers** section of the **Memory** tool is sorted by distance by default, which means that the simplest retaining paths for an object are shown first.

> Any object with no retainers can be discarded by the browser’s garbage collector, which reduces memory usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any object with no retainers can be discarded by the browser's garbage collector, which reduces memory usage.
```
straight quotes per Contrib Guide, though skeptical that it makes a difference

GLOBAL nice to do (a separate Comment): change any curly quotes in article to straight quotes.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## V8 specifics

When profiling memory, it's helpful to understand why heap snapshots look a certain way. This section describes how some objects are stored in memory by the _V8 JavaScript virtual machine_ (abbreviated here as _V8 VM_, or just _VM_), which can help you when analyzing heap snapshots in the **Memory** tool.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### JavaScript primitives

In JavaScript, there are three primitive types:

*  Numbers (such as `3.14159`).
*  Booleans (`true` or `false`).
*  Strings (such as `"Werner Heisenberg"`).

Primitives cannot reference other values, and are always leaf nodes in the memory graph (also called _terminating nodes_).

**Numbers** can be stored as either:

*  Immediate 31-bit integer values that are called **small integers** (_SMIs_).

> *  Heap objects, referred to as **heap numbers**. Heap numbers are used for storing values that don't fit into the SMI form, such as **doubles**, or when a value needs to be **boxed**, such as setting properties on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  Heap objects, referred to as **heap numbers**. Heap numbers are used for storing values that don't fit into the SMI form, such as values of type `double`, or when a value needs to be boxed, such as setting properties on it.
```

**Strings** can be stored in either:

*  The **VM heap**.

*  Externally in the **renderer's memory**. A _wrapper object_ is created and used for accessing external storage where, for example, script sources and other content that's received from the Web is stored, rather than copied onto the VM heap.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### JavaScript objects

Memory for new JavaScript objects is allocated from a dedicated JavaScript heap (or _VM heap_). These objects are managed by V8 VM's garbage collector, and therefore, these objects stay alive as long as there is at least one reference to them.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Other objects

> * **Native objects**: Anything not in the JavaScript heap is called a _native object_. A native object, in contrast to a heap object, isn't managed by the V8 garbage collector throughout its lifetime, and can only be accessed from JavaScript by using its JavaScript wrapper object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Native objects**: Anything that's not stored in the JavaScript heap is called a _native object_. A native object, in contrast to a heap object, isn't managed by the V8 garbage collector throughout its lifetime, and can only be accessed from JavaScript by using its JavaScript wrapper object.
```

When there are a small number of properties, the properties are stored internally in the JavaScript object.

> **Map** is an object that describes both the kind of object it is and the layout. For example, maps are used to describe implicit object hierarchies for [fast property access](https://v8.dev/blog/fast-properties).

Reviewer: In the DevTools, this is called `system / Map`. `Map` is used to refer to JavaScript [Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) objects.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Object groups

> <!-- This doesn't seem very actionable to users. We describe groups, but don't say where they appear in the tool and what's interesting about them. We then talk about native objects, seemingly out of the blue. -->

Author: @sethbrenith See my HTML comment here. Are object groups still a thing in V8, and do they play a role in memory consumption that web developers should know about?

Reviewer: I don't think any of this is relevant anymore; let's get rid of the section.

Each _native object group_ is made up of objects that hold mutual references to each other. Consider, for example, a DOM subtree where every node has a link to the relative parent and links to the next child and next sibling, thus forming a connected graph.

Note that native objects aren't represented in the JavaScript heap. The lack of representation is why native objects have zero size. Instead, wrapper objects are created.

Each wrapper object holds a reference to the corresponding native object, for redirecting commands to it. In turn, an object group holds wrapper objects. This doesn't create an uncollectable cycle, because garbage collection is smart enough to release object groups whose wrappers are no longer referenced. But forgetting to release a single wrapper will hold references to the whole group and to any associated wrappers.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Cycles

> <!-- This needs a concrete example, not sure what earlier and later mean. And why is removing the earlier instance important? -->

Author: @sethbrenith any help on this would be great!

Reviewer: Hmm, I agree that this section is pretty confusing, and I'm not quite sure how to make it better. The simplest advice would be: when trying to remove an object from the heap, it's generally most helpful to focus on the shortest retaining path, which is expanded by default when you select the object.

The Retainers pane shows all objects which point to the selected object. Following along edges backwards through the graph, you might end up revisiting a node you've already seen, which is not super useful, so Jose added a filter to hide such nodes in the Retainers view. However, I'm not sure that this section fits conceptually with the rest of this article: the article seems to be high-level ideas to get someone started on memory analysis, and this section is a description of a specific feature to solve a specific problem. It might be best to just remove this section.

Author: Thanks. I'll consider moving these notes to our Memory tool reference article instead then.
